Featuring new open-source typeface Guggenheim Sans, in both Latin and Arabic character sets; wordmarks and graphic symbol; and capsule collection of apparel and accessories.

(NEW YORK, NY—November 7, 2024) The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation today launched a unified visual identity that connects its constellation of museums across New York, Venice, Bilbao, and the forthcoming Guggenheim Abu Dhabi. Created in collaboration with the renowned design firm Pentagram, the visual identity reinforces the Guggenheim’s position as a global cultural institution while celebrating the unique local character of each of its museums.

At the heart of the identity is Guggenheim Sans, a custom-designed, open-source typeface that includes both Latin and Arabic character sets, reflecting the institution’s museum locations and its commitment to accessibility and international dialogue. The new typeface is freely available for public use, embodying the Guggenheim’s values of openness and cultural exchange.

The updated identity builds on the Guggenheim’s legacy of extraordinary art, architecture, and design while looking toward its future, particularly as it prepares to expand its presence to the Gulf Region with Guggenheim Abu Dhabi. The new Arabic character set was developed in collaboration with Lebanon-based studio Debakir and Kuwait-based studio TB.D.

The Guggenheim Sans typeface builds off an existing open-source font and incorporates shared type characteristics from fonts previously used across the Guggenheim constellation. These include the original Guggenheim font created in 1996 by Hoefler & Co, which referenced architectural lettering on the exterior of the Frank Lloyd Wright-designed Guggenheim New York.

As part of the visual identity launch, the Guggenheim has created a capsule collection of apparel, accessories and gifts available in the Guggenheim New York shop and coming soon to Bilbao, Venice Abu Dhabi, and online. The collection is the result of a collaboration with Dots & Roots, a woman-led design and production firm based in northern Spain that uses locally-sourced materials and makers.

“I’m thrilled to introduce this new chapter in our visual story, one that captures the essence of who we are – four museums in four great cities on three continents, each in a distinctive architectural home where anyone can encounter and learn with outstanding works of modern and contemporary art,” said Mariët Westermann, Director and CEO of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum and Foundation. “Together, we form a global constellation united in creating and sharing transformative experiences of art and architecture. This refreshed, elegant

and dynamic identity expresses that shared vision while honoring the unique spirit of each Guggenheim museum.”

“In developing this new visual identity, we sought to create a system as dynamic and interconnected as our museums themselves,” said Tina Vaz, Deputy Director, Chief Brand and Communications Officer. “The decision to make Guggenheim Sans available as an open-source typeface, complete with an Arabic character set, reflects our commitment to accessibility and cultural dialogue. This is more than a typeface – it’s a tool for creative expression that we’re sharing with the world, inviting others to become part of the Guggenheim’s story.”

The new identity will be rolled out across all Guggenheim locations and platforms throughout 2025.
About the Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation

The Solomon R. Guggenheim Foundation was established in 1937 and is dedicated to promoting the understanding and appreciation of modern and contemporary art through exhibitions, education programs, research initiatives, and publications. The international constellation of museums includes the Guggenheim New York; Peggy Guggenheim Collection, Venice; Guggenheim Bilbao; and the future Guggenheim Abu Dhabi. An architectural icon and “temple of spirit” where radical art and architecture meet, Guggenheim New York is now among a group of eight Frank Lloyd Wright structures in the United States designated as a UNESCO World Heritage site. To learn more about the museum and the Guggenheim’s activities around the world, visit guggenheim.org.

@Guggenheim

November 7, 2024

For additional information and requests:
Press Office
Guggenheim New York
212 423 3840
pressoffice@guggenheim.org

source:
https://www.guggenheim.org/press-release/guggenheim-unveils-new-visual-identity-uniting-its-global-constellation-of-museums